Edits throughout manuscript (#17)
greenelab/iscb-diversity-manuscript: content/10.methods.md

### Estimation of Gender

We predicted the gender of honorees and authors using the <https://genderize.io> API, which produces predictions trained on over 100 million name-gender pairings collected from the web.
We used author and honoree first names to retrieve predictions from genderize.io.
The predictions represent the probability of an honoree or author being male or female.

> We use the estimated probabilities and do not convert to a hard group assignment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used the estimated probabilities and did not convert to a hard group assignment.
```

For example, a query to <https://genderize.io> on January 26, 2020 for "Casey" returns a probability of male of .74 and a probability of female of 0.26, which we would add for an author with this first name.

> Because of the limitations of considering gender as a binary trait and inferring it from first names, we only consider predictions in aggregate and not as meaningful values for specific scientists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of the limitations of considering gender as a binary trait and inferring it from first names, we only consider predictions in aggregate and not as individual values for specific scientists.
```

To complement wru's race and ethnicity estimation, we applied the Python package `ethnicolr` developed by Sood and Laohaprapanon [@arxiv:1805.02109].
`ethnicolr` also uses United States Census data, but also adds in data curated from Wikipedia in 2009 [@doi:10.1145/1557019.1557032].
While ethnicolr overcomes some of the limitations of wru, its international representation is still limited.
For instance, 76% of the names in ethnicolr’s Wikipedia dataset are European in origin, and the dataset contains remarkably fewer Asian, African, and Middle Eastern names compared to that of wru.
Because the primary weaknesses of ethnicolr were related to the source data, we created an updated training dataset and set of predictors based on the ethnicolr methodology.

#### Constructing a Name-to-Nationality Dataset

> To generate a training dataset for nationality prediction, we scraped Wikipedia’s category of [Living People](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Living_people), which contained approximately 930,000 pages at the time of processing in November 2019.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To generate a training dataset for nationality prediction, we scraped English Wikipedia’s category of [Living People](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Living_people), which contained approximately 930,000 pages at the time of processing in November 2019.
```

@arielah can you confirm that we only used English Wikipedia?

This category reflects a modern naming landscape.
It is regularly curated and allowed us to avoid pages related to non-persons.
For each Wikipedia page, we used two strategies to find a full birth name and nationality for that person.
First, we used information from the personal details sidebar; the information in this sidebar varied widely but often contained a full name and a place of birth.
Second, in the body of the text of most English-language biographical Wikipedia pages, the first sentence usually begins with, for example, “John Edward Smith (born 1 January 1970) is an American novelist known for ...”
We used regular expressions to parse out the person’s name from this structure and checked that the expression after “is a” matched a list of possible nationalities.
We were able to define a name and nationality for 708,493 people by using the union of these strategies.
Our Wikipedia-based process returned a nationality or country of origin, which was more fine-grained than the broader regional patterns that we sought to examine among honorees and authors.

> We initially grouped names by continent, but later decided to model our categorization after the hierarchical nationality taxonomy used by NamePrism [@doi:10.1145/3132847.3133008].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We initially grouped names by continent, but later decided to model our categorization after the hierarchical nationality taxonomy used by [NamePrism](http://www.name-prism.com/about) [@doi:10.1145/3132847.3133008].
```
